!
SBMX1027 - VIRTUAL BIOINSTRUMENTATION
!
UNIT IV
INSTRUMENT INTERFACES
!
4–20mA Current Loop
!
Current-mode data transmission is the preferred technique in many environments, particularly in
industrial applications. Most systems employ the familiar 2-wire, 4–20mA current loop, in which a
single twisted-pair cable supplies power to the module and carries the output signal as well.
The 3-wire interface is less common but allows the delivery of more power to the module
electronics. A 2-wire system provides only 4mA at the line voltage (the remaining 16mA carries the
signal). Current loops offer several advantages over voltage-mode output transducers:
– They do not require a precise or stable supply voltage.
– Their insensitivity to IR drops makes them suitable for long distances.
– A 2-wire twisted-pair cable offers very good noise immunity.
– The 4mA of current required for information transfer serves two purposes:
it can furnish power to a remote module, and it provides a distinctionbetween zero (4 mA) and no
information (no current flow).In a 2-wire, 4–20mA current loop, supply current for the sensor
electronicsmust not exceed the maximum available, which is 4mA (the remaining 16mAcarries the
signal). Because a 3-wire current loop is easily derived from the2-wire version, the following
discussion focuses on the 2-wire version.
!
Need for a Current Loop
The 4–20mA current loop shown in Fig. 1 is a common method of transmittingsensor information
in many industrial process-monitoring applications. A sensor is a device used to measure physical
parameters such as temperature, pressure, speed, liquid flow rates, etc. Transmitting sensory
information through a current loop is particularly useful when theinformationhas to be sent to a
remote location over long distances (1,000 ft, ormore). The loop’s operation is straightforward: a
sensor’s output voltage is first converted to a proportional current, with 4mA normally representing
the sensor’s zero-level output, and 20mA representing the sensor’s full-scale output. Then, a
receiver at the remote end converts the 4–20mA current back into a voltage which in turn can be
further processed by a computer or display module. However, transmitting a sensor’s output as a
voltage over long
distances has several drawbacks. Unless very high input-impedance devices are used, transmitting
voltages over long distances produces correspondingly lower voltages at the receiving end due
wiring and interconnect resistances.However, high-impedance instruments can be sensitive to noise
pickup since the lengthy signal-carrying wires often run in close proximity to other electrically
noisy system wiring. Shielded wires can be used to minimize noise pickup, but their high cost may
be prohibitive when long distances areinvolved. Sending a current over long distances produces
voltage losses proportionalto the wiring’s length. However, these voltage losses also known as loop
drops” do not reduce the 4–20mA current as long as the transmitter anloop supply can compensate
for these drops. The magnitude of the current inthe loop is not affected by voltage drops in the
system wiring since all of thecurrent (i.e., electrons) originating at the negative (−) terminal of the
loop power supply has to return back to its positive (+) terminal

