8(2024)100069
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Data and Information Management
journal homepage: www.journals.elsevier.com/data-and-information-management
Special issue: Systematic review and meta-analysis in information management research
We are pleased to publish this second, and final, volume of our cyber security. The paper is an important read for scholars and practi-
special issue on systematic literature review and meta-analytic methods tioners of cyber security.
in the field of data and information management. We include five papers The fourth paper is by Gupta, Ding, Guan and Ding from Singapore
from authors representing diverse geographic regions, namely China, University of Social Science and Nanyang Technological University,
South Korea, South Africa, Singapore, and Iran. The papers selected for Singapore. Their paper illustrates the usefulness of systematic search
inclusion in the second volume apply meta-analysis, topic modelling, and topic modelling to provide an overview of the scholarly literature on
and systematic review techniques. They illustrate the benefits of these an emerging technology, namely generative AI’s (GAI). They applied the
methods to objectively summarise large bodies of literature, resolve BERTopic topic modelling algorithm to 1319 records in Scopus and
inconsistencies in past research, identify gaps in literature and generate derived 23 topics from which they deduced seven clusters of topics.
ideas for future research. These topics address innovative GAI applications, GAI infrastructure and
All papers in the special issue were subjected to double-blind peer techniques, and GAI governance. Opportunities for future research in
review by at least two expert reviewers with multiple rounds of review the evolving GAI field are offered. The paper is important for scholars
and revision, and the guest editors were assigned papers to ensure no interested in learning about the advancement of generative AI and the
conflicts of interest. current state of literature on the topic.
The first paper by Qiu and Zhang from Wuhan University, China, The final paper in this special issue is by Talafidaryani and Asarian
addresses the topic of electronic word-of-mouth (eWOM) in the form of from University of Tehran, Iran. They provide another example of a
online reviews. They present a meta-analysis of 156 studies addressing smart, automated literature review. Specifically, they use the LDA topic
the relationship between online reviews and consumer purchase in- modelling text analysis approach to reveal the dominant themes in
tentions. They demonstrate the use of meta-analytic techniques to research on digital transformation. Texts were sourced from Scopus and
reconcile inconsistencies in past studies by examining the predominant Web of Science along with JCR journals. The themes identified include a
antecedents of purchase intention in the online reviews context, and the core knowledge group and a group of developing trends in digital
role of various moderators. They use the random-effect model to esti- transformation research. They provide useful input to future research by
mate pairwise correlations along with a meta-regression technique. By uncovering some of the fastest growing topics in digital transformation.
revealing both review-related and source-related antecedents and the
moderating roles of culture and product type, they offer important
Acknowledgements
practical and research implications.
The second paper by Batool and Mou from Pusan National Univer-
We would once again like to thank the editorial board of Data and
sity, South Korea is a systematic literature review and analysis of virtual Information Management for the opportunity to conduct this special
try-on technology (TOT). The paper offers a useful overview of TOT
issue. We are grateful to the authors who contributed to this special issue
technologies and applications. This is followed by a systematic review of and to the reviewers whose comments helped strengthen the papers for
80 articles that uncovers the range of theories employed in past TOT
publication.
research, along with the antecedent and outcome variables examined.
Various gaps are uncovered to promote future research.
Jian Mou
The third paper by Jada and Mayayise from the University of the
School of Business, Pusan National University, Busan, South Korea
Witwatersrand, South Africa, presents results of a systematic literature
E-mail address: jian.mou@pusan.ac.kr.
review on the role of artificial intelligence in cyber security. The
PRISMA method was used to guide their systematic review stages. Their Jason Cohen*
systematic search of the scholarly literature resulted in a sample of 73 School of Business Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg,
articles focused on AI and cyber security in the organisational and en- South Africa
terprise context. In addition to revealing prevalent themes on how the
use of AI differs from traditional non-AI means of cyber protection, their *Corresponding author.
review also uncovers both the positive and negative impacts of AI use in E-mail address: jason.cohen@wits.ac.za (J. Cohen).
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dim.2024.100069
Availableonline13March2024
2543-9251/©2024TheAuthors.PublishedbyElsevierLtdonbehalfofSchoolofInformationManagementWuhanUniversity.Thisisanopenaccessarticleunder
theCCBY-NC-NDlicense(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

